# research for one of the formal specification topics

## Formal specification

A formal software specification is a specification expressed in a language whose vocabulary, syntax, and semantics are formally defined. Formal software specifications are mathematical entities and may be analyzed using mathematical methods. The area where they are most applicable is in the development of safety systems and standards. Formal specifications may be automatically processed. Software specification is sometimes seen as the first stage in the design process. Some classes of software systems are difficult to specify using existing techniques software engineers have been reluctant to make use of formal specification techniques because the specialized notations used in these intimidate many of them. Some members of the computer science community who are active in the development of formal methods misunderstand practical software engineering and suggest that software engineering can be equated with the adoption of formal methods of software development. The major advantages of using formal specifications include Formal specifications are precise and unambiguous. Formal specification of design patterns can enhance the understanding of their semantics. It can be used to help pattern users decide which pattern is more appropriate to solve a given design problem within a context. It can help formalize the combination of design patterns. Software testing is an important and, traditionally, extremely expensive part of the software development process, with the importance and cost depending on the nature and criticality of the system. Specifications and models exist, these may be used as the basis for automating parts of the testing process, and this can lead to more active and effective testing. The links between testing and formal methods do beyond generating tests from a formal specification. For example, if we have a formal specification then we may be able to use this as the basis for generating a test oracle: a system that determines whether an observed input/output behavior is consistent with the specification. The engineering rationale behind formal methods is that time spent on specification and design will be repaid by a higher quality product, contributing to the commercial rationale of trying to reduce the cost of rework later on. Formal methods of course do not gage correctness, but their use goal is to increase our understanding of a system by revealing errors or aspects of incompleteness that might be very expensive to rectify at a later date. Naturally, development is still likely to be iterative since requirements usually change during a development project and the use of formal specification languages cannot be expected to entirely eliminate errors. A set of different formal specification techniques exist, some are general purpose and while others are overall aspects relevant to private application domains (e.g., concurrent systems).
